---
layout:     page
permalink:  /curriculum-vitae/
title:      Curriculum Vitae
---

h2. Curriculum Vitae

h3. Evgeny Andreevich Mandrikov

Born December 4th, 1986, Chelyabinsk, Russia

h4. Work Experience

* 09/2010 - present : SonarSource (Switzerland)
  Position title: Software Developer
  Projects: Open platform to manage code quality
* 07/2008 - 05/2010 : Tek Laboratories (Russia-Finland)
  Position title: Software Developer, Technical Leader and System Administrator
  Projects: Logistic systems for health care
* 01/2007 - 07/2008 : Tek Laboratories (Russia-Finland)
  Position title: Junior Developer
  Project: Real-time car fleet monitoring desktop application with natural geo map interface.
* 03/2006 - 12/2006 : Scientific Methodical Center of Admiralty district in Saint-Petersburg
  Position title: System Administrator
* 04/2006 - 06/2006 : Scientific Industrial Firm “Technological equipment”
  Position title: Software Developer
  Project: System for monitoring industrial thickness gauges
* 10/2000 - 08/2004 : Chelyabinsk Physical and Mathematical Lyceum #31
  Position title: Laboratory Assistant

h4. Open Sources Experiences

* 01/2011 - present : Apache Committer
* 01/2011 - present : JaCoCo Committer
* 01/2010 - present : Hudson/Jenkins Committer
* 12/2009 - present : Codehaus Committer

h4. Education

* 2008 - 2010 : Saint-Petersburg State University of Information Technologies, Mechanics and Optics. Master of Applied Mathematics and Informatics.
* 2004 - 2008 : Saint-Petersburg State University of Information Technologies, Mechanics and Optics. Bachelor of Applied Mathematics and Informatics.
* 1997 - 2004 : Chelyabinsk Physical and Mathematical Lyceum #31.
* 1994 - 1997 : Chelyabinsk School #135.

h4. Skills

* Programming languages: *Java*, Ruby, Flex / ActionScript, Groovy, C, C++, PHP, Pascal (Borland Pascal, Delphi), Perl;
* Development systems: *Sun JDK* 1.4/1.5/1.6, Eclipse, IntelliJ IDEA, MS Visual Studio 6/7/7.1, Borland Delphi 5/6/7;
* Version Control Systems: *Git*, *Subversion*, CVS;
* Continuous Integration Systems: *Jenkins*, Hudson, Bamboo, TeamCity;
* Continuous Inspection Systems: *Sonar*;
* Build Tools: *Maven*, Ant;
* Libraries/Technologies:
** GUI: Java AWT, Swing, Win32 API, MFC;
** Databases: SQL (*PostgreSQL*, MySQL, Oracle)
** Web: Apache, nginx, HTML, XHTML, CSS, Java Servlets;
** Graphics: OpenGL;
** Testing Frameworks: *JUnit*, TestNG;
** Other: XML/XSD/XSL, JBoss AS;
* Operating systems: *Linux* (*Gentoo*, Fedora, Ubuntu), FreeBSD, MS Windows;
* Language: Russian (native), English.

h4. Achievements

* Acquired III diploma at I Russian Command Olympiad in Informatics in 2000-2001 year.
* Acquired I diploma at II Russian Command Olympiad in Informatics in 2001-2002 year.
* Acquired III diploma at XVI Russian Olympiad in Informatics in 2003-2004 year.
* Took part in ACM ICPC in 2004-2005 year.
* Google Summer of Code 2010 as a student.
* Google Summer of Code 2011 as a mentor.

h4. Teaching activities

* Lecturing in Saint-Petersburg State University of Information Technologies, Mechanics and Optics (2009-2011):
** Machine Learning
** Information security
* Lecturing in school in Saint-Petersburg (2005-2006).
* Lecturing in summer informatical camps for high school students in Chelyabinsk (2004-2006, 2010-2011).

h4. Personal

* Agile, self-motivating, self-learning;
* Sport-hobbies: roller skates, ice skating, runner, volleyball.
